2016-04-26-What-Is-A-Website

A website is a location on the World Wide Web that contains multiple pages of information. There are millions of websites online currently, and you probably use many daily! Anything you google or search on the internet will direct you to a series of websites that potentially contain answers to your questions. Most businesses, schools, restaurants, and companies use websites to make information open to the public. 
	Websites contain multiple files including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, which are interpreted by your browser to determine what the layout of the page will look like on your computer (Feldman). HTML is the Hypertext Markup Language that is used when creating webpages. HTML controls how things look on the screen, if there is an image projected, if some words are bolder than others, if paragraphs have different sized font, if a hyperlink is included to direct you to another page, and nearly every tangible aspect of the website. Once a website is created, it must be given an IP address so it can be accessed through the Domain Name System, often referred to as DNS, or the “phonebook for the internet” (Feldman). The IP addresses are then linked to domain names that would most likely be typed into a browser to find the desired website (Feldman). Once the correct IP address is known, your computer will make a connection with the Internet Service Provider before locating an index file, which is a homepage for the website. Once the index file is found, the file will be downloaded, along with the HTML code, and display the contents in your browser (Feldman). This is how all websites can be accessed, which can happen at any time as long as there is a strong internet connection to allow IP addresses and the DNS to work to display the desired page. 
	Although all websites can be accessed the same way, there are differing types of websites that require extra security, and work to display. Static websites are easier to access because it consists a series of HTML files that each represent a physical page of a website that would appear the same for anyone who came across it (Spaanem). For example, websites for restaurants and companies provide all the same information for every single viewer, so no extra security precautions are in place to grant access to a viewer. However, websites like Facebook are dynamic websites, meaning it uses server technologies, such as PHP to dynamically build a webpage specific to the user immediately when the user visits the page (Spaanem). For Facebook, before being granted access to your account, you must go through an initial page asking for a username and password, which are added as security measures. Once the correct information is entered, the dynamic site connects with the corresponding website with your specific information like your posts and feed. Another security measure in place for some websites is firewalls and encryption. Firewalls are pieces of software or hardware that control what services are exposed to the internet, thus protecting users from unsafe websites that could give your computer a virus (Ellingwood). When websites are safe, they typically use HTTPS, which means that the website has a SSL or TLS certificate, which are used to authenticate different entities to one another, and establish encrypted communication (Ellingwood). This can be visible by a lock displayed in the browser.
	

Ellingwood, Justin. "7 Security Measures to Protect Your Servers | DigitalOcean." 7 Security Measures to Protect Your Servers | DigitalOcean. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2016.

Feldman, Zach. "New York Code + Design Academy." NYCDA. N.p., 15 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Apr. 2016.

Spaanem, Matt. "Static vs. Dynamic Websites: What Are They and Which Is Better?" Static vs. Dynamic Websites: What Are They and Which Is Better? N.p., 26 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Apr. 2016.
